which rapper born in 1972 took his stage
name from the initials of his first and
last name the answer at the end of the
show
welcome to lateral where two more teams
are going to be taking on some tough
lateral thinking questions playing today
we start with I'm Vicki during the week
I'm a museum professional but at the
weekends I make videos about trains with
this man
and I'm Jeff and I do like railways and
trains a lot and I have a youtube
channel exclusively all about them as
well as a joint one so are you hoping
that train questions come up and very
good of Railways and transport and
travel and jog Rafi in general that that
would be out do you have a team name
off-peak only team off-peak only alright
that might get shortened to two team
off-peak or team off depending on how
much yes all right playing against you
we have my name is Lizzy or better known
as ldshadowlady and I make minecraft
youtube videos and I'm Joel sometimes
known as smallish beans and I also make
minecraft YouTube videos so we're hoping
for video gaming questions yeah very
much so
any other anything else you're looking
for oh you know I'm okay at movies but
spot no science no Maps no I don't know
there's a long list of nodes do any of
the teams like sport is I yeah Vicky's
good at movies and I'm good at sport and
pop music okay at least one sport
question would be nice do we have a team
name Pinky and the brain which ones
which Lizzy is both and Pinky and the
brain and job alright again I might have
to make that team pinky when we're in a
rush but it's out okay all right so team
off-peak and team pinky let's start
round one
well one is deep thought six lateral
thinking questions sixty seconds for
each question buzz in as soon as you
think you know the answer the earlier
you buzz the more points you'll get but
if you're not sure hold on I'll steadily
reveal some clues to make it easier if
you're ready the first question is gonna
go to team off-peak things on buzzers
have a look at this a version of this
object currently available on sale has
sections labeled daytime noon day
evening and bedtime what is it some kind
of clock alarm clock should we wait for
them to clean which seems too obvious
it's clearly time base no but think
think noon think naturally might be not
time-based so what else refers to time
that isn't to do with time it tends to
be used by older people like pills oh
yeah pill dispenser device a pill box
okay a medication pill dispenser yeah
it's a seven-day pill dispenser you're
absolutely right for three points each
of those words has seven letters in it
so there's one over each day and that's
easier to print but you're absolutely
right for three points that is a seven
day pizza hey we didn't think we're
gonna get you're on the board team
pancake James Polk US president during
the 1830s was not an impressive figure
and sometimes went ignored when he
entered the room at large gatherings to
solve this problem
his wife arranged for what to happen oh
gosh maybe he's something to do is how
he looks people notice him more when he
was coming off some sort of weird
climbing device something I have no idea
though or a sound plays when he walks
I don't be smart but the 1830's like
they'd have to get got people's
attention
clearly too bad I think yeah maybe a
band played maybe had a theme tune when
he walks in can we go for that
for three points oh yeah I'll allow it
it's hail to the chief it's the
traditional presidential introduction in
now every time a president walks into a
big function they play that to let them
know he's here you're actually fine for
three points team off-peak in 2001 the
artist Milton Glaser got the idea for
this morale-boosting artwork on
September the 12th which lengthened his
1976 original by 300% what did the
original say 76 what 11 the awful
tragedy okay in New York yes the
original is on many tourists t-shirts
the font it's the font it's the I heart
in my phone that you okay yes yes go for
it
yes I heart New York is correct three
points you're absolutely right the
original has four characters there's 12
more they're in the same font so it
lengthened by 300% team pinky have a
look at these what's missing why that's
what's missing I have no idea at all I
don't know nothing about geography what
could be missing it's three sets so that
would be three decent those are three
points from the others
so it makes a triangle it's what is it
missing there's north and west
or is it Norfolk West is not probably as
long as you imagine together they make
something famous that you can't see Deb
we need a triangle are you sure I'm
missing in the Bermuda Triangle I don't
know if it's just a big tangle though
try it go for it have another look at
the question what's missing ships yes
are the three points that we need a
triangle so what's missing a ships and
planes that have entered it
well in legend anyway congratulations
that's worth two points to you the next
questions are on the buzzers for both
teams so fingers on buzzers two similar
looking birds of the same species are
perched on fence in a normal fashion but
one bird is from the countryside and the
other lives in a city without any
scientific examination or special
knowledge most people would be able to
tell them apart for a few minutes how
by like cuz does in this country you
couldn't do this immediately always has
to be something behavior it have to be a
behavior because it's not from looking
at it maybe for the country so I have a
different person
pigeons pigeon was like in a city would
come toward you pigeons intention it's
to do with the bird call sound I've
literally no idea okay Go Go buzzing for
two points out on a limb I'm gonna say
that the city bird would be quieter and
the country bird is sort of more used to
making more noise so they would be doing
the louder and more frequent calls than
the city bird I I don't know why though
but that's my game it's not what I've
got so I'm gonna hand over the rest of
the question you've got that
uninterrupted if you want it
clock starts again now right most people
so normal people the urge of birds what
do you know that I know nothing about
bird calls could still have the same
notes in the same order
whoa I've no idea I have no idea I was
thinking it might sound like a ringtone
missing Mississippi what that is really
done yes yes I guess it sounds like a
real time it's not this the same notes
Jeff you would the wrong way round the
city bird is louder because it's got to
compete with traffic noise don't I get
home for even there are no half points
for that I'm really sorry that's on the
right line you were right dial on the
right lines you just got it the wrong
way round fingers back on the buzzers
last question in this round a performer
was asked to stream a concert on the
second life virtual world by a user they
had the money to pay and there was
nothing illegal or immoral about the
request and yet the performer applied as
if that decision cost her an estimated
118 million pounds which she now regrets
what didn't she foresee wrong with all
the weird characters and stuff
that decision Custer estimated what's
the second life virtual world yeah do
you know I don't know what many people
didn't foresee this either how popular
it would be no chance inauguration is it
oh you know no but why would that be on
second life maybe
wait for it yeah some people have called
this a giant Ponzi scheme I heard about
why would she go
it's not dollars it's to do with a
financial fluctuation yes she paid in
Bitcoin yes she did not foresee the
rising value of Bitcoin this was Lily
Allen who turned down something like
10,000 Bitcoin when it was not worth
anything to perform in Second Life so
that's absolutely right for one point
congratulations which means at the end
of that round the scores are tied it's
all round two is second thought teams
you're gonna see a board of twelve
numbers behind each one is a clue all
those Clues point to one single answer
and that's time looking for it's got to
match all the clues even the ones you
haven't seen yet but there's no penalty
for guessing wrong so if you're not sure
take a guess it might move that keyless
Leiby right earlier you get it the more
points you get so team off-peak you
start with five points possible
pick a number 11 number 11 government oh
so many things taxes taxes I'm gonna
take that up some concerts it's not what
I've got on the board team pinky pick a
number
can we have number five please number
four for five points works in a vacuum
right vacuum doesn't sound in a vacuum
just guess a TARDIS is not unfortunately
government on notice in the BBC so yeah
sadly not one I've got for four points
pick another number five number five
reusable rubbish rubbish no haven't got
that so pick a number seven number seven
orbiter space space no not
government-owned as far as I know not
yet anyway
team offbeat pick a number I think I
have an idea so let's go a number two to
number two back has two doors is it the
space shuttle it is the space shuttle
you are exactly right government owned
reusable orbiter that works in a vacuum
other things on the board
I love the clue three legs two wings and
one tail which is totally right so yes
absolutely right that is good for three
points you get the first choice on this
board so picking
number one number one claps but doesn't
applaud what horses hooves oh it's a
llama yes it's not what I've got dang it
now you make clapping noise for five
points I think number so I gone caused
by rapidly heated gas oh not what I was
thinking it'll be like a movie
clapperboard no isn't what I've got so
pick a number number six number six for
four points also happens on what happens
on Jupiter stays and dr. Howard Thunder
yes
thunder is exactly right for four points
it makes a thunderclap your absolute the
other things on the board steadily
reveal that I become so clear now which
means that's four points for you and
that puts you in the lead team of people
pick a number number number six things
number six the third degree an
interrogation is not what I've got
so pick a number number 12 number 12
originally male only yes as well
burns night bones night is not what I've
got
so for four points pick a number number
eight number eight charitable causes
third-degree burns take a shot no I'm
gonna that's far too long
pick a number 11 number 11 insignia and
symbols is the third to be like a book
or maybe but why would a movie I bug
have been male only the TARDIS I mean it
was a written mellow like that's that's
fair no sadly not number seven number
seven apron ape let's make a guess I
knocked up bath time me likey like oh
yes forgive the Navy the Navy is not
what I've got no so we gonna pass this
back over like a number nine number nine
for three point
it's a handshakes apron I've no idea I'm
so lost right now
Thunder Thunder now the number-10 play
number ten Supreme Being do you
understand
the Masons the Masons the Freemasons is
exactly right yes they wear aprons they
were male only and some of them still
are and they have secret fairly sure
it's not the Masonic handshake but no
absolutely right for two points lust
board in this round you get the first
choice so pick a number seven number
seven the subject of a mark Mason who's
mark Mason I have no idea Steve what
Steve it's not like there's a look on
the faces out there they can pick a
number I have all of mark Mason's book
so let's go with number six number six
one hundred and twenty four UK it's
postcodes it is postcodes you're
absolutely right and that is for five
points which has changed the scores
quite a bit and that means as we go into
the final round it is team off-peak with
a six-point advantage
okay
the final round is quick thought teams
you're both gonna start with 90 seconds
of thinking time first want to run out
of that thinking time is gonna be out of
this game not out of the tournament yet
but out of this game now you have a
six-point advantage each of those points
gets turned into five seconds so you're
going to start with two minutes on your
clock you're gonna start with one minute
30 and I'm afraid you're going to be
going first but the questions are fast
if you're not sure they'll be a new clue
every 10 seconds buzz incorrectly and
the clock will start on your opponent's
buzz in incorrectly you'll lose 10
seconds and your clock will restart is
everybody ready careful on the buzzer
all right things on buzzers team pinky
your clock starts now
in early dictionaries which animal was
known as a camel apart oh yeah yes it's
too obvious it was said llama no ten
points away it was a giraffe looks a bit
like a camel colors remind you of a
leopard so what we start with one minute
and nine which cartoon characters by
Pierre color Ford are usually no more
than three apples tall which cartoon
characters by Pierre color forty usually
no more than three apples twenty they
have a human-like form three apples like
they are an unusual color help
no three apples what those those bears
what those bears called up denote
they're not think they are famously
Belgian and blue
should we skip the question I've got
fail 1 seconds you can pass if you need
to this gummy bears it was a Smurfs oh
oh so that's ten seconds away I'm afraid
with only 17 seconds left on the clock
what is the nearest star to earth Sun is
correct
team off-peak two minutes on the clock
which current makeup brand was founded
by a Polish beautician in 1909 why are
you looking because I don't wear makeup
you think of one makeup manufacturer
the brand is now owned by Coty
incorporated actually I can think of
L'Oreal that's it if you want to just
I've no idea dude yes some people don't
realize the brand is a real name yes
don't know don't even know it's Max
Factor ah I do have a full name on here
I'm not going to try and pronounce it
ten seconds away one minute twenty on
your clock what's the only insect that
can turn its head 180 degrees C 80 I'm
gonna say cockroach Oh
cockroach no it's a praying mantis ten
seconds away your clock restarts which
bird requires up to 12,000 calories a
day having the fastest metabolism of any
animal it's good that bird of prey to be
talking eagle you need special cameras
to film it properly oh I can I can it's
not I kind of want to wait for another
clue okay that's fine it moves its wings
very quickly we our owl know it's a
hummingbird ten seconds away
no 24.2 on your clock which product for
displacing water was perfected by norm
Larson's company after 39 failed
attempts wd-40 is correct team pinky
fourteen point four seconds which famous
author born in 1928 had the middle name
kindred
ah another clip his works have been
featured in famous films guess hey Mel
is that a person is a person but they
don't have the middle name kindred and
they don't have the middle initial K it
is philip k dick i'm afraid you don't
have ten seconds to give so that means
that the victors are team off peak
congratulations you are straight through
to the next round we're not saying
goodbye to you yet though there is still
a chance to make it through to the final
just have to take a slightly longer
route to get there but until then
commiserations and thank you very much
for playing congratulations team
off-peak we'll see you very soon and
until then we'll see you next time on
what rock
[Music]